# 020-070-deploying-our-first-application-on-istio

 So, in this demo, we'll deploy the Bookinfo application on our cluster, enable sidecar injection to run our Envoy sidecars properly, and prepare our mesh for our first interaction with it. For this, we're going to use the Bookinfo app under the samples folder we downloaded with Istio. So, it's here in the platform directory, let's apply it with kubectl. As you can see, each service has a service, service account, and deployment objects described in this file. You can even see the three different versions of previews deployed already. Let's check the status of our pods. So, they're all ready and running, which is nice. This means our application must be running properly. But do we have a service mesh in place? Here, as you can see, there's only one container for each of our Pods, which is not a very good sign. Why could this be happening? Let's use Istioctl analyze command here to check if there's anything wrong. Oops, there's an info message about the default namespace here. It says, default namespace is not enabled for Istio injection. This is because we need to explicitly mark a namespace for injecting Istio sidecars into the pods in that namespace. Let's use this suggested approach here to label our namespace. Yep, it is marked. Now, to get this working, we need our Pods to be recreated. A fast way to do that is to delete all our Deployments. And create them with our initial YAML file. Here, it has only created the missing ones, and the rest is not changed. Now, let's check our pods once again. Yes, they have sidecars injected to each one of them. Here, an older deployment still has some pods in a terminating state, but it's just a matter of time that it disappears. And yes, it did. Okay, so let's try Istioctl analyze command once again. It is telling us, the command just analyzed the default namespace and found no issues regarding Istio objects. Congratulations, we now can start building our Service Mesh.