# 010-050-envoy

 When you get into the Service Mesh world, Envoy is one of the most common proxies you'll hear about. So, let's have a look at it now. Envoy is a proxy, but what is a proxy? Let's forget about containers and Kubernetes for a second and talk about a user trying to connect to an application. The application currently has its business logic, that is, whatever the application does, and at the same time, also does other things, such as securing connection using TLS encryption, or authentication, or retrying requests if it is not able to serve the user, etc. These will need to be coded into the application. What if all of these extra functionalities could be outsourced into a separate service, so that the developers could focus solely on developing business logic, which is more fun? That's called a proxy. Now, the user reaches out to the proxy and the proxy forwards the request to the application. Envoy is an open-source proxy designed for modern service-oriented architectures. It was mainly started in the company Lyft in 2015, when they were trying to solve their own microservices problems. So, it was mainly designed for distributed architectures and microservices. In 2017, the project was accepted to CNCF, and in 2018, it reached the graduate level, which means it is battle-tested, ready for production, and has a healthy number of contributors. Envoy is a proxy and communication bus with advanced capabilities. It works as a sidecar next to your containers, just as we described in the last slide, so that the traffic going in and out of our pod is using Envoy as a proxy. Many service mesh implementations use Envoy now, and we will talk about Envoy more in Istio's core architecture.